# Networking
## Chapter 4

# Applied Cryptography
• What does PKI and X.509 certificates solve?
 - User, CA, verifier
   - CA issue public key bind to user
• Which are the two most important fields in X.509 certificate?
 - 
• Who defines trusted CAs for digital signature certificates?
 - software vendor
 - eu regulations
• What is Hardware Security Module useful for?
 - to become CA
• What browser checks in a certificate received from the server?
 - certificate must be signed by trusted CA
 - if hostname matches with CN in the certificate
 - valid date and extension
• Who defines trusted CAs for web server certificates?
 - browser enlists all the CA 
• How are DV certificates different from OV certificates?
 - Identity Validation 
 - DV : Domain Validation
   - previously 20 $/y but now 0 $/y
   - validate by email, domain name
   - checks wheather you you control the domain
 - OV : Organization Validation
   - 200$/y 
   - check wheather you operate the organization or not
 - the difference is in Organization field
• How does CA verify whether the buyer owns the domain?
    - email to the admin

Key Should be - 
    For symmetric  - Confidential and authentic
    For Asymmetric - authentic

Trust Model
    - Trist on first use(ssh(encrypted telnet))
      - for authenticity we get a public key from the server
      - we need to contact server and ask for the public key
      - stored in : ~/ssh/known_hosts
      - if key changed
        - some error
      - How secure the model is?
        - on starting not that much as need to give public key
        - but if something changed later then it'll show error
    - decentralized
      - web of trust
    - centralized (PKI)
      - trusted third party
      - Main actors
        - user
        - ca
        - verifier
      - idea comes from passport
      - Usage
        - server authentication
        - digital signature
        - client authentication
        - code signing
        - e-mail (s/mime)
      - CA
        - trusted third party
        - software vendor decides on behalf
        - eu regulation
          - country need to authorize
        - certificate chain
          - root
          - delegate trust to others
        - security of rootca is necessary
          - intermediary if compromised then revoked
        - To get root CA trusted
          - compliance audit
          - liability insurance
          - hardware security modules(HSM)
            - store private key storage device
            - private key never leaves the device
            - expensive
        - X.509 Certificate (public key certificate)
          - Important fields
            - subject
            - issuer
            - public key 
            - serial
            - valid
            - other data
            - signed Ca's signature 