### Software Development
 - process of coneiving, specifying, desigining, programming, documenting, testing & bug fixing in  creating & maintaining applications, frameworks or other software component.
#### Software Development Paradigm
 - helps to select a strategy to develop the software
 - has own tools, methods, procedure, life cycle

#### Waterfall Model
 - flow
   - requirement
   - design
   - implementing
   - verification
   - maintenance    


#### Integration Testing
 - individual software modules are combined and tested as a group
 - conducted to evaulate the compliance of a system or compoent with specified functional requirements
 - occurs after unit testing and before validation testing
 - takes input modules that have been unit tested, groups them in larger aggregates, applies tests defined in integration test plan to thoses aggregates and delivers output as it's output the integrated system ready for system testing. 
 - Some different types of integration testing are big-bang, mixed (sandwich), risky-hardest, top-down, and bottom-up. Other Integration Patterns[3] are: collaboration integration, backbone integration, layer integration, client-server integration, distributed services integration and high-frequency integration.
 - definition: a level of software testing where individual units are combined and tested as a group. purpose is to expose faults in interaction between integrated units.
 - test drivers and test stabs are used to assist this testing


#### Unit Testing
 - UNIT TESTING is a level of software testing where individual units/ components of a software are tested. The purpose is to validate that each unit of the software performs as designed. A unit is the smallest testable part of any software. It usually has one or a few inputs and usually a single output.
 - In procedural programming, a unit may be an individual program, function, procedure, etc. In object-oriented programming, the smallest unit is a method, which may belong to a base/ super class, abstract class or derived/ child class.
 - Unit tests are typically automated tests written and run by software developers to ensure that a section of an application (known as the "unit") meets its design and behaves as intended.
 - The goal of unit testing is to isolate each part of the program and show that the individual parts are correct.[1] A unit test provides a strict, written contract that the piece of code must satisfy. As a result, it affords several benefits.
 - Unit testing finds problems early in the development cycle.
 - In test-driven development (TDD), which is frequently used in both extreme programming and scrum, unit tests are created before the code itself is written. 
 - Unit testing frameworks, drivers, stubs, and mock/ fake objects are used to assist in unit testing.

#### Testing levels

Unit Testing -> Integration Testing -> System Testing -> Acceptance Testing


#### Scrum
 - agile process framework for managing complex knowledge work
 - designed for 10 or less people team who break work into goals that will be completed within timebox iterations called sprints no longer than 1 month and most commonly 2 weeks, 15 mints time boxed daily meeting
 - Process:
   - product backlog -> spring planning -> sprint backlog -> sprint -> potentially sippable product -> sprint review / retrospective 