## SSD
 - why do we select only one asset-related concept while evaluating business asset? why only one is enough? 
 - How to choose that, which risk treatment should we accept? like reduction or avoidance? is it just depend on the security requirement or there are any other factors? how to choose the requirement?
 - for measurement we put some value for requirement, vulnerability level, risk level, threat likelihood, reduction etc. how to choose those values? just randomly based on the system or there is some specific rules and regulations, yeah we can do it by just measuring the system but always it's not possible because there are many unpredictable cases
 - why potentiality = likelihood + vulnerability - 1 ?
 - didn't understand the risk level2 in security risk management..!!!
  
 - can we accumulate all the diagrams(use/misuse , activities/mal activities) (or, security risk oriented modeling languages) to make some specific modeling to the security risk management


 - All the modeling languages
   - bpmn
   - secure tropos
   - risk oriented misuse cases
   - mal activity security risk management


- RBAC
  - both secureuml and umlsec follows uml diagram
    - uml sec supports all uml profile(usecase, class, activity, state, component)
    - if we add constraint to umlsec and make it explicit with few extensions then why do we need secureuml? 



 - Question to ask tomorrow? 
   - So far we have learned several risk oriented modeling languages( Risk-oriented BPMN, risk aware Secure Tropos, Risk-oriented misue cases, mal activities). Can we accumulate all the security risk oriented modeling languages to make some spcific modeling for the security risk management to take the advantages of all the models? 
   - In RBAC both Secure UML and UMLSec follows UML where UMSec supports all UML profile including class diagram. My question is -  if we add constraint to UMLSec and make it explicit with few extensions then why do we need  Secure UML ? 


