### DBMS Interview Prep
    - [dbms interview questions study](https://www.javatpoint.com/dbms-interview-questions)
    - [mysql interview preperation](https://www.javatpoint.com/mysql-interview-questions)
### GIT
    - [git interview questions (just go through, need more study)](https://www.javatpoint.com/git-interview-questions)
### Core Java Interview Questions
    - 121. how to make read only class?
    - 122. how to make write only class?
    - 123. what are the advantages of encapsulation? 
    - 124. what is package? 
    - 125. advantage of defining package in java?
    - 126. how to create package in java?
    - 127. how we can access some class in another class?
    - 128. do i need to import java.lang?
    - 129. can i import java package/class twice?
    - 130. what is static import?
    - 131. How many types of exception in java?
      - checked
      - unchecked
      - error
    - 132. what is exception handling?
    - 133. explain hierarchy of Java Exception classes?
    - 134. what are the difference between checked expcetion vs unchecked exception?
    - Throwable
      - Exception
        - SQLException
        - IOException
        - RuntimeException
          - Arithmetic
          - NullPointer
          - IndexOutOfBoundsException
            - ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException

      - Error
        - StackOverflowError
        - VirtualMachineError
        - OutOfMemoryError
    - 135. What is the base class of Error & Exception?
      - Throwable
    - 136. is it necessary to have catch block after eatch try?
      - no
      - either catch or finally
    - 137. can we catch Exception e before ArithmeticException ex?
      - no, Exception is base calss of other exeption so it should be catched at the last
    - 138. What is finally block?
      - always executed if exist
      - follows try or catch
      - clean up code like closing file/connection
      - only one finally block acceptable
      - only won't execute if the system quit by System.exit() or fatal error that causes the process to abort
    - 139. can finally block use without catch?
      - yes
    - 140. is there any case that finally won't execute?
    - 141. what is the difference between throw and throws?
    - 142. can we throw int?
      - no
    - 143. how throw work?
      - the object thrown by throw is assigned to the catch(CustomException e)
    - 144. can exception be rethrown?
    - 145. can subclass override method throw exeption if parent class dont?
      - yes but only unchecked
    - 146. what is exception propagation?
      - exception is thrown from the top of the stack if it is not caught then it drops down the call stack to the previous method and goes sequentially until reach bottom of the stack
      - checked exception aren't propagated
    - 147. how exception propagated from top of stack to the bottom of call stack?
    - 148. if there is no exception in try then will catch work?
      - no
    - 149. what is string pool?
      - space reserved in heap space
      - when creating string literal JVM checks the pool if already exists to optimize memory
    - 150. what do you mean by immutability in string?
      - we cannot change string
      - new string is created and reference variable point to that
      - s.concat() return new string
    - 151. what are the object mutability in java?
      - as java has concept of string literal so multiple reference can point to same string so changing one will  affect others so string is immutable
    - 152. How many ways we can create string object?
      - String literal. String s1 = "welcome"; String s2 = "welcome"; both of them point same string literal they don't create two new reference
      - new keyword. create new instance. String s=new String("Welcome");//creates two objects and one reference variable  
    - 153. by string literal if we create multiple variable with same value how many object will be created?
      - one
    - 154. why java use string literal concept?
      - to make memory efficient
    - 155. how many objects created by new keyword with String?
    - 156.  String a = new String("Sharma is a good player"); String b = "Sharma is a good player";  /* are they equal */ ?
      - yes
      - == checks reference, as a and b are different reference 
      - equal check content
    - 157. what does intern method do?
      - eturns the String object reference from the string pool. 
    - 158. What are the difference between String and StringBuffer?
    - 159. diffence between StringBuffer & StringBuilder?
    - 160. how to create immutable class in java?
    - 161. What is the purpose of toString()?
      -  If you print any object, java compiler internally invokes the toString() method 
      -  we can ovverride 
    - 162. why password saving in CharArray() is preferred?
      - in String object it stays in string literal in memory so until garbage collected it stays in memory, so anyone having memory dump can have access
    - 163. write a program to count number of words in java?
    - 164. name some classes present in java.util.regex?
    - 165. how metacharacter are different from ordinary character?
      - as they are used to find pattern in regular expression
    - 166. write regular expression to validate password?
    - 167. pattern match with .?
    - 168. what are the advantage of inner class?
      - inner class can access private of outer class
    - 169. what is nested class?
    - 170. what are the disadvantage of using inner class?
    - 171. type of inner class
    - 172. difference between nested class and inner class
    - 173. can we access non local variable inside the local inner class?
      - no
      - must be constant to access
    - 174. if there are two inner class then how many class will be created finally?    
      - 3
    - 175. what are anonymous inner class?
      - new AbstractClass(){ void abstractMethodImplement(){}}
      - also work with interface
    - 176. what is nested interface?
    - 177. can a class have interface?
      - yes
      - nested interface
    - 178. can an interface have a class?
      - yes
    - 179. What is garbage collection? 
      - process of removing unused objects from the memory to free up space and make this space for JVM
      - in C it is done by free(), in c++ by delete()
    - 180. what is gc()?
      - this method invoke the garbage collector for cleanup process
    - 181. How garbage collector controlled?
      - by JVM.
      - we can call externally by gc() but depends on JVM when to execute
      - when memory is running low
    - 182. how can an object be unreferenced?
      - by nulling
      - by assigning to another
      - by anonymous object
    - 183. what is the purpose of finalize() method?
      - the method is invoked before an object is garbage collected
      - gc only collects object declared by new
      - this finalize() method is defined in Object so present to all
    - 184. can we reference an unreferenced object again?
      - yeah
    - 185. what type of thread is garbage collector thread?
      - daemon
    - 186. difference among final, finalize, finally?
    - 187. what is the purpose of java Runtime class?
      - interact with JRE
      - can run process runtime
      - singleton
    - 188. how to run any process runtime in java?
      -   Runtime.getRuntime().exec("notepad");//will open a new notepad  
    - 189.


    - [exception string](https://www.javatpoint.com/corejava-interview-questions-3)
    - [multithreading](https://www.javatpoint.com/java-multithreading-interview-questions)
    - [collections](https://www.javatpoint.com/java-collections-interview-questions)


### Java Basics Review
 - [java cheat sheet](https://github.com/in28minutes/java-cheat-sheet)

### CTCI
 - 