ref: http://ksat.me/a-plain-english-introduction-to-cap-theorem/

### CAP Practical example in distributed system

#### System description
    - created an Inc. where anyone can call and ask for remembering stuffs
#### Scaling
    - daily call number increase so one person cannot handle so added one more person (SCALING)
#### Consistent
    - someone called they first guy but didn't get reply to they query so get really angry. The first guy didn't find the info in the query book. 
    - later first guy called second guy and the data was in second guy's query book 
    - so distributed system is not consistent 
    - as the call can go any guy randomly  
#### Fixing Consistency problem 
    - before saving a query a guy can call other guy and be updated both at the same time
    - availability problem: if one of guy absent then cannot update both and cannot complete a call 
#### Making Consistent and Available
    - if another guy not available then send an email nd when that guy will be available then he'll update his notebook accordingly 
    - not both consistent and available
### Partition Tolerance 
    - if one guy is angry then he might receieve call but won't update the noteboook then system is not partition tolerant
    - the system may be partition tolerant by deciding not receiving any call until both guy patch up. 

### What is CAP theorem?
    - while designing a distributed system you cannot achieve all three of Consistent, Availability and partition tolerance. only two can be picked - 
        - C : once client update information will always get the most updated information in subsequent call 
        - A: 
        - P: 
### Eventual Consistent 
    - there might be a clerk who will update one guy's notebook when another guy's notebook is updated. 
    - benefit is that : can work background, no blocking update 
    -<b>THIS IS HOW NOSQL WORK: ONE NODE UPDATES ITSELF LOCALLY AND A BACKGROUND PROCESS SYNCHRONIZES ALL OTHER NODES ACCORDINGLY.
    </b>
        - Only problem is that consistency might loose for certain amount of time. a customer reach first guy and before updating data to guy two by the clerck the customer call again to get the info
        - but it's not a bad idea if such cases are limited. for instance a customer won't forget thing within 5 minutes so quickly that he calls back in 5 mintues.



## NoSQL vs SQL
 - NoSQL is good for schemaless, need to explicitly define schema, data set's are extremely large
 - NoSQL favors for denormalised schema, nested data, 
 - "" doesn't mean loose of data
 - NoSQL easy to scale up data
 - NoSQL often lack the ability to perform atomic operations across multipe tables
 - NoSQL is good when most of the data will never be queried, the things are tracking are quite small, extremely fast in memory, schema is flexible and changing, globally distributed data, run different versions of your application against different evolving schema in the same database(s), need more than 1000+ databases, simple data requirement like key/value



 - for dynamic, complex query sql is better
 - doesn't need to be 1 choice or another, both can be used for special use case


 ### Scaling MySQL
