### Java Concepts
 - [Java Interview Questions](https://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/core-java-interview-questions/)
 - [300 Core Java Interview Questions](https://www.javatpoint.com/corejava-interview-questions)
   - 51. what is this keyword?
     - reference variable
     - refers current object
     - refer current class method, property, constructor etc. (state, behavior)
     - can be returned from method as the current class instance
   - 52. main use of this?
     - this() current class constructor
   - 53. can we assign reference to this?
     - no
     - this is a final variable
   - 54. can this refer static members?
     - yes
   - 55. how to do constructor chaining with 'this' keyword?
        ```
        class Employee{
            int age, id, address;
            Employee()
            Employee(int age){
                this.age = age;
            }
            Employee (int id, int age){
                this(age);
                this.id;
            }
            Employee (int id, int age, int address){
                this(id,age);
                this.address = address
            }
        }
        ```
    - 56. advantage of passing 'this' instead of current class object?
      - this is final so immutable
      - this can be used inside synchronized block
    - 57. what is inheritance?
      - one object acquire all the properteis and variables of another object of another class
      - reusability and method overriding
      - IS-A relationship
      - type of inheritance
        - single level
        - multiple level
        - multiple inheritance
        - hierarchy
        - hybrid
    - 58. why inheritance used?
      - code reusability
      - data hiding
      - runtime polymorphism
      - overriding
    - 59. Super calss of all class?
      - Object
    - 60. why multiple inheritance not supported in java?
      - reduce complexity and simplify language
      - omit diamond problem, ambiguity A, B has same method and C extends both of A & B. then which method will run?
    - 61. What is aggregation?
      - the relationship between two classes where aggregate class contains a reference to the class it owns
      - has - a relationship
      - ex: Employee class can contain Address class
    - 62. What is composition?
      - holding reference class within another class
      - contained object cannot exist without the container object
      - ex: engine cannot exist without bike or bike has engine
    - 63. Difference between aggregation and composition?
      - aggregation weak relationship where, composition strong relationship
    - 64. Why java doesn't support pointer?
      - pointer is variable refer to low level memory
      - unsafe(unsecured) and complex to understand
    - 65. What is super in java?
      - refer to immediate parent class object 
      - The super() is called in the class constructor implicitly by the compiler if there is no super or this.
    - 66. constructor chaining by super?
      - like 'this'
    - 67. main use of 'super'?
      - parent class property, method or constructor
    - 68. Differences between this and super keyword?  
      - super point to parent where this point to current
      - both of them must be first statement inside constructor else compiler through error
    - 69. which constructor called first - parent or child?
      - parent then child
      - super() invoked by compiler implicitly if no super or this is included explicitly
    - 70. can this() and super() both be in constructor? 
      - no
    - 71. What is object cloning?  
      - create exact clone of existing object
      - java.lang.Clonable interface must be implemented and the clone() method throws  CloneNotSupportedException
    - 72. what is method overloading?
      - polimorphism technique where name same but signature different
      - canbe achieved two ways - 
        - changing parameters
        - changing return type
    - 73. why method overloading not possible just changing return type?
      - create ambiguity
    - 74. can we overload method by applying static?
      - no
    - 75. can we overload main method?
      - yes
    - 76. what is method overloading with type promotion?
      - one parameter will be promoted to another type if no exact matching will be found
      - ex: byte -> short -> int -> (long, float, double)
    - 77. two methods with same # of parameters but different type will work?
      - (long, long) / (int, int) would be ambiguity
    - 78. what is method overriding? 
      - if subclass provide specific implementation of a method that has already provided by the superclass
      - runtime polymorphism, to implement interface
      - rules:  
        - same name
        - same param
        - parent child relationship
    - 79. can we override static method? 
      - no
    - 80. why cannot override static method?   
      - as they are part of class not the object
      - static var/method get different memory area
    - 81. can we override overloaded method?
      - yey
    - 82. difference between override and overloading?
    - 83. can we override private methods?
      - no  
    - 84. can we change the scope of the overriden method in child class?
      - yes
      - we canno decrease but increase
        - protected to public or default
        - default to public
        - public will always public
    - 85 Can we modify the throws clause of the superclass method while overriding it in the subclass?
       -  Yes
          - if superclass doesn't declare exception then subclass cannot declare exception
          - if superclass then subclass declare
    - 86. if child calss override a method with parameter double but the parent class has same method with int param then if new child(10) called then which method would be called?
      - parent
    - 87. can you have virtual function in java?
      - yes, all java functions are virtual by default in java
      - In C++, parent class need to declare 'virtual' keyword to get runtime polimorphism but in java it's by default always child class will override parent class method 
    - 88. what is covariant return type?
      - possible to override any method by changing return type if return type of the subclass overriding method is subclass type*
    - 89. which override method will called parent's or child's?
      - child's
      - runtime polimorphism
      - on runtime it is checked that if base calss method is override by any child class method or not if yes then derieve calss method is called
    - 90. what is final variable?
      - constant
      - final keyword:
        - stop value change
        - stop override
        - stop inherit
    - 91. what is final method?
    - 92. what is final class?
    - 93. what is final blank variable?
      - basically we cannot create final variable without assigning value to it but there is an way that we can declare the variable(this is blank variable) and assign it in constructor. 
    - 94. can we initialize final blank variable?
      - yeah through constructor
      - if it is static then through static block
    - 95. can we declare main method as final?
      - yes
    - 96. can we declare final variable inside main in one line then initialize another line?
      - yes
      - as we initialize once so
    - 97. final method can be override in subclass?
      - no
    - 98. can we declare constructor as final?
      - vai etto kera ken?
      - constructor is not inherited 
      - not ordinary method
      - no sense 
      - compile error
    - 99. can we declare interface as final?
      - no
    - 100. difference between final and abstract method?
      - abstract method cannot be final as abstract method need to be override must
    - 101. difference between runtime polimorphism & compile time polimorphism?
      - compile time 
        - call to method
        - early/static binding,
        - overloading
        - fast execution
        - flexibility
      - run time
        - call to override method resolved runtime
        - override
        - dynamic binding, late binding
        - slower execution
        - more flexibility because all thing rosolved at runtime
    - 102. what is runtime polymorphism?
      - override method resolve at runtime
    - 103. can you achive run time polimorphism by data member?
      - no
      - we can override methods not data members
    - 104. difference between early binding and late binding?
      - type of object determined compile time and in late binding runtime
    - 105. What is dynamic method dispatch?
      - At compile-time, it is checked whether that method is present in the Base class. In this case, it is overridden in the child class, therefore, at runtime the derived class method is called.
    - 106. what is instanceOf operator?
      - to check instance with type
      - return true or false
      - subclass type is also  a type of parent class type
    - 107. What is abstraction?
      - hiding implementation details and showing only functionality to the user
      - ex: sending message
      - abstraction let us focus on what an object does rather how it does
      - in java two ways to achieve abstraciton
        - abstract class
        - interface
    - 108. what is the difference between abstraction vs encapsulation?
      - abstraction hides implementationd details where encapsulation wraps code and data into single unit
    - 109. what is abstract class?
      - class with abstract keyword
      - cannot be instantiated
      - can have abstract method, non absract method, final method, constructor, static methods
    - 110. can there be abstract method without abstract class?
      - no
    - 111. if we can give concrete implementation of abstarct class inside a method will it work?
      - yes
    - 112. can we yse both abstract and final in a method?
      - no
    - 113. is it possible to instantiate abstract class?
      - no
    - 114. what is interface?
      - static constants and abstract methods
      - can be used to achieve full abstraction and polymorphism/multiple inheritance
      - also IS-A relationship
      - cannot be instantiated like abstract class
      - from java 8 we can create default, static, private method
    - 115. can you declare interface method static?
      - no
    - 116. can the interface be final?
      - no
    - 117. what is marker interface?
      - interface doesn't have any data member or method
      - ex: Serializable, Clonable
    - 118. difference between abstract class & interface?
    - 119. can we declare private and protected modifiers for member in interface?
      - no, public by default
    - 120. when an object reference can be casted to interface reference?
      - if the class of the object implements the interface
    - 121. 