1. What do you understand from the term ‘Source Control’? 
Source control is the practice of tracking and managing changes to source code. It helps developers to keep track of right version of source code. Source Code Management(SCM) toos provice running history of code development and help to resolve conflicts while merging contributions from multiple source. 

Wheather working on a personal simple application or collaborating on a large software development project as a part of a team, soruce control is an important compoent of the development process. It allows to keep track code changes, revision history of code, revert to previous version of the project, centralizes all source code, etc.
[ref1](https://www.perforce.com/blog/vcs/what-source-control)
[ref2](https://aws.amazon.com/devops/source-control/)

example - Git, Subversion, Mercurial

2. What's an IDE, what can it do?
IDE(Integrated Development Environment) is a software application that gives the comprehensive facility to computer programmers for software development. Basially IDE normally consists of at least a source code editor, build automation tools and debuggers. Some IDEs(Eclipse, Netbeans, Jetbrains IDEs, etc.) contains necessary compiler, interpreter or both. 
Some of the basic functionalities that IDEs can have - syntax highlighter, code completion, refactoring, debugging etc. 
[ref](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrated_development_environment)

3. What is coupling? How could you avoid it? 
Coupling is a measure of how much a software module is dependent on other modules or how closely two routines or modules. Another term named coupling, is contrusted with cohesion where low copling refers high cohesion, and vice versa. Low coupling is a sign of well-strucutured computer system and good decision. 

Example: 
```java
class ShoppingCartEntry {
    public float price;
    public int quantity;
}

class ShoppingCart {
    public ShoppingCartEntry[] items;
}

class Order {
    private ShoppingCart cart;
    private float salesTax;

    public Order(ShoppingCart cart, float salesTax) {
this.cart = cart;
this.salesTax = salesTax;
    }

    // This method know the internal details of ShoppingCartEntry and
    // ShoppingCart classes. If there is any change in any of those
    // classes, this method also needs to change.
    public float orderTotalPrice() {
float cartTotalPrice = 0;
for (int i = 0; i < cart.items.length; i++) {
    cartTotalPrice += cart.items[i].price
    * cart.items[i].quantity;
}
cartTotalPrice += cartTotalPrice * salesTax;
return cartTotalPrice;
    }
}
```
Method orderTotalPrice in Order class is coupled heavily with ShoppingCartEntry and ShoppingCart classes. It uses different properties (items, price, quantity) from these classes. If any of these properties change, orderTotalPrice will also change. This is not good for Maintenance.


Solutions: One way to decrease coupling is functional design(a paradigm which assures that each modular part of a device has only one responsibility and performs that responsibility with the minimum of side effectes on others parts). Coupling increases between two classes A and B if:
 - A has attribute refers to B
 - A calls services of an Object B
 - A has method with return type of B
 - A is subclass of  (or implements) class B
so by avoiding these we can reduce coupling

[ref1(my personal repository)](https://github.com/transparent2/java-cheat-sheet)
[ref2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coupling_(computer_programming))

4. What is a super class? 
In object-oriented programming paradigm, a class from which other class inherit code is called superclass. The classe that inherts code called subclass of that superclass. All the subclasses inherit the instance variables(state) and method(hehavior) functions of thier supercalss.

example: 
```java
public class Actor {
    public void act(){
        System.out.println("Act");
    };
}
//IS-A relationship. Hero is-a Actor
public class Hero extends Actor {
    public void fight(){
       System.out.println("fight");
    };
}
```
Here, Actor is a superclass. 


[ref 1(my personal repository)](https://github.com/transparent2/java-cheat-sheet#every-class-extends-object-class)
[ref 2](https://www.computerhope.com/jargon/s/superclass.htm)
[ref 3](https://www.thoughtco.com/superclass-2034298)

5. Explain Composition
In object oriented programming, composition describes a class that references on or more objects of other classes in instance variable. It models a has-a association between objects. 

For example, a car has composition of engine, a modern coffee machine has integrated grinder and brewing unit, etc. 

```java
public class Job {
    private String role;
    private long salary;
    private int id;
        
    public String getRole() {
        return role;
    }
    public void setRole(String role) {
        this.role = role;
    }
    public long getSalary() {
        return salary;
    }
    public void setSalary(long salary) {
        this.salary = salary;
    }
    public int getId() {
        return id;
    }
    public void setId(int id) {
        this.id = id;
    }
    
    
}

public class Person {

    //composition has-a relationship
    private Job job;
   
    public Person(){
        this.job=new Job();
        job.setSalary(10000L);
    }
    public long getSalary() {
        return job.getSalary();
    }

}
public class TestPerson {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Person person = new Person();
        long salary = person.getSalary();
    }

}
```
[ref1](https://stackify.com/oop-concepts-composition/)
[ref2](https://www.journaldev.com/1325/composition-in-java-example)

6. What’s the difference between a dictionary (or hashmap) and a linked-list?
Lists represent sequential ordering of elements where maps are used to repersent collection of key/value pairs. 

Dictionary(or hashmap): A dictionary( or hashmap, or hash table) is a data structure which implements associative array abstract data type which can map keys to values. A hash funciton is used to compute the index. It is largely used in database indexing, caching, sets, etc.

Linked-List: A linked list is a liner collection of data where order is not given by physical placement in memory. Each element in the list points to next element. This data structure consists of collection of nodes where each node contains: data and reference. Linked lists are building block of other common abstract data types including lists, stack, queue, assoticative arrays, etc. Other benefit of using linked list over array is that elements can be easily inserted or removed without reallocation or reorganization of the entire structure. 

Differences: Dictionary contains set of keys and each key has a single associated value while linked list is a list of linear data. Dictionary can be implemented via linked list or tree data structure. The access time of any element in the dictionary is O(1) in best case while in linked list it takes O(1). 


[ref 1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list)
[ref 2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_table)
[ref 3](https://github.com/forhadmethun/Code/tree/master/interview-prep/src/mycodeschool/list)
[ref 4](https://github.com/forhadmethun/Code/tree/master/interview-prep/src/leetcode/hashmap)


Algorithms


1. What does algorithm mean?
    Algorithm is a finite sequence of well-defined, computer-implemented instructions that can be used to solve a class of problems or to perform a computation. Algorithms are always used to perform calculations, adta processing, automated reasoning and other tasks.
    example: Find largest number in a list of numbers of random order
    ```
    Algorithm LargestNumber
    Input: A list of numbers L.
    Output: The largest number in the list L.
    if L.size = 0 return null
    largest ← L[0]
    for each item in L, do
        if item > largest, then
        largest ← item
    return largest
    ```
    [ref](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algorithm)

2. Compare/contrast these pieces of code 

(Write underneath the table. This is pseudocode, don’t worry about syntax/language/completeness, think instead about the algorithms. When writing your answer think about the sizes of the two inputs (how many lines of words in the text, how many array elements) )


SAMPLE A


(text,  searchTermsArray) {

        For each ( word in searchTerms ) {
                
                For each (line in text) {

                        If (line matches word) {
                                 Results.add(lineNumber)        
                        }

                }         
        }
}


SAMPLE B

(text,  searchTermsArray) {

        Dict = Dictionary(word, lineNumber)

        For each ( line in text ) {         
                Dict.add(line, lineNumber)        
        }

        For each (word in searchTerms) {       
                  Results.add( Dict.get(word) )     
        }         
 
}
¬(p∨q)⟺¬p∧¬q








Control Flow

9.  What is the inverse of inclusive  “A OR B” 

10. What is the inverse of  “A AND B”

11. For “A OR (B AND NOT C)”, which examples are true when OR is inclusive?
	I)   A = False,   B = True,    C= True
	II)   A = False,   B = True,    C= False
	III)   A = True,   B = True,    C= False
	IV)   A = True,   B = False,    C= False
