# Applied Crypto
## 01
- Where we can get (true) random numbers?
  - thermal noice, photoelectric, quantum phenomena
- Why pseudo-random number is not as good as random number?
  - deterministic algorithm
  - output determined by seed value
- What are the properties of random sequence?
  - sequence of numbers dosn't follow any determinstic patern
  - none numbers based on previous one
  - no description shorter than itself
  - seqeunce of bits cannot be compresssed
- Can we tell whether the provided sequence is random?
  - if there is no shorter description then we can tell 
  - statistical randomness test can provde non-randomness
- What happens to data if we XOR it with random data?
  - toggle/flip specific bits
- Why brute-froce attacks are ineffective in breaking one-time pad?
  - though attacker can try all possible keys but the output generated by each key would likely to be the plaintext so couldn't differetiate, no way to find which one is the currect plaintext, same proability 
- Why unbreakable one-time pad is not used in enterprise products?
  - problem is in key distribution
  - if file is 1gb then nneeded 1gb key
  - in the current system symettic key generation is secured but in future might needed, but no practical use
- How is stream cipher different from one-time pad?
  - same keystream must never be reused
  - smaller key and key stream generator is used
  - for small key there might be possibility to find some pattern   
  - from limited candidates attacker might find the plain text
  - doesn't provide any integrity, as by changing few bits might flip specific output so output might be changed
- can we flip coin to get random umber?
  - not perfect as depend on law of physics, wind other factors
- can a computer generate ranom number? 
  - no, processor determinstic   
  - there need some physical source of randomness!!

- Why One time pad?
  - super simple to implement
  - 100% secure
- Why One time pad secure?
  - It destroys almost one every second bit so information changed totally  
## 03
- What are the properties of hash function?
  - easy producable
  - one wayness
  - hard to find message with same hash(collission resistance)
  - similiar message different output(amr)
- What attacks cryptographic hash function must resist?
  - collision, hash(x) = hash(y), x != y
  - first preimage, has(x) =h, give h find x
  - second preimage, hash(x) = hash(y), given x, hash(x), find y, where y !=x
- What does the size of hash function output influence?
  - defines security level, brute force attack removal with more size
- What is a “security level” in cryptography?
  - if x-bit key can be brute-forced using 2^x operations then crypto system has security level of x bit
- What is commitment scheme useful for?
  - a schme shows us to commit something
  - binding
  - hiding
  - improve hiding by adding randomness 
- Why it is better to store hashed passwords in db?
  - to be safe from password cracker
- How can we increase the security level of password hashing?
  - add salt
- How can we create encryption scheme from hash function?
  - hashfunction provide lager output then slower the operation
  - slow down by arbitary factor using iterated hash h(h(h(h(x))))
    - tradeoff performance vs cost of brute-forcing
    - goal is to increase asymmetry
- What is HMAC useful for?
  - to check if message is okay
  - to check message integrity
- Why using MD5/SHA1 for HMAC is not insecure?
  - * because need key?\
  - changing single bit will give toally different output hash
  - mac cannot be produced without key
  - md5 is vulnerable to choose collission attack
- Can we use MAC as a digital signature? 
  - signature can be validated by all parties but MAC is used for trusted parties with whom the key is shared

## 04
- How block cipher works (takes as an input, returns)?
  - (plain,key)  -- encrypt  --> (ciphertext)
  - (ciphertext,key)  -- decypt  --> (plain)
- What happen s to ciphertext if single plaintext or key bit is changed?
  - single bit change will produce completely different ciphertext(diffusion)
  - ECB : change the block ( divide the plaintext in 16 bytes of block(128 bit) and encrypt, not secured as if two blocks produce same output then it's easy to guess that both of the blocks are same)
  - CBC : change the following  
    - use output of one block as initialization vector for the next block
- Why encrypting every block of the file independently is not secure?
  - divide the plaintext in 16 bytes of block(128 bit) and encrypt, not secured as if two blocks produce same output then it's easy to guess that both of the blocks are same
- Why do we apply initialization vector (IV) to plaintext block?
  - encryption x0r plaintext with IV
  - if no initialization vector then if two blocks have same output then it's easy to guess that the content of both of the contents are same, initialization vector remove the issue
- How to provide integrity of ciphertext?
  - hmac
  - simply encryption doesn't provide any integrity
- When should we use stream cipher and when block cipher?
  - stream cipher use: if we need to send bit by bit then (voice), encrypt data block by block
  - if no need of bit by bit encryption then block
- How to convert short password to 128-bit encryption key?
  - use hash of password
  - use salt
  - use iterated hash to slow down brute force
- What is side-channel vulnerability?
  - function vulnerable to timing attack
  - exploitable over low latency networks    
  - solution: need constant time string comparison functiono

## 05 
- What does public key cryptography give us?
  - key exchange can be non-confidential channel
    - channel need to be authentic
  - possibility for digital signatures
    - data origin authentication
  - data encrypted with one key can be decrypted with another and vice versa
- How will you create RSA encrypted message to me?
  - prime p, q
  - n = pq(mod 2048)
  - phi(n) = (p-1)(q-1)
  - choose e, coprime with phi(n)
  - de = 1 (mod phi(n))
  - public(e,n)
  - private d
  - enc: c = m ^e mod n
  - dec: m = c ^d mod n
- How will you verify my RSA signed message?
  - encrypt with private key, decrypt with public key
- What is hybrid encryption useful for?
  - encyrpt plaintext larger than modulus size
    - increase modulus size
  - split into blocks and encrypt seperately
  - rsa to encrypt symmetric key and the key will be used followed request
- How are passive attacks different from active attacks?
  - passive: evesdropping
  - active: man-in-middle
- Why active attacks are harder to execute?
  - need to use device in the middle to 
  - pre programed to fast
  - hard to detect modification
- What is threat model useful for?
  - to understand what are the capabilities of the adversery and how tougher 
- Why 2048-bit RSA does not have security level of 2048 bits?
  - half of the bits
- What will happen to cryptography the day quantum computers are invented?
  - need to shift higher symmetric level or that type of algorithm that will provide security to that computation power

## 06
- What does PKI and X.509 certificates solve?
  - obtaining keys of other party
  - which public ke belongs to which identity
- Which are the two most important fields in X.509 certificate?
  - subject
  - public key
- Who defines trusted CAs for digital signature certificates?
  - software vendors (mozila, google)
  - eu regulations
  - root ca
  - intermediate ca

- What is Hardware Security Module useful for?
  - private key storage device , private key never leaves the device
  - to get root CA
- What browser checks in a certificate received from the server?
  - certificate signed by trusted ca
  - hostname match in cn certificate
  - validate date, extensions
- Who defines trusted CAs for web server certificates?
  - (prev)
- How are DV certificates different from OV certificates?
    - DV(domain validation): 20/y ro 0/y
      - wheather the party applied for the domain has control over the domain or not
    - Organization validation (200/y)
      - whether you operate the organization
- How does CA verify whether the buyer owns the domain?
  - CSR

## 07
- How can the relying party find the CRL?
- How is the integrity of CRL data assured?
- How frequently the CA should issue CRL?
- How frequently the relying party should refresh CRL?
- How can the relying party know that CRL is fresh?
- How to verify if root CA certificate has not been revoked?
- Is the subject liable for transactions made after certificate is revoked?
- Is the subject liable for transactions made in certificate validity period?

## 08 
- The main requirements for signature to have QES status?
  - 
- The benefits of QES compared to electronic signature?
  - 
- Can the authenticity of QES be contested?
  - 
- Can unsiged e-mail be used as a proof in the court?
  - 
- How can the TSP became a QTSP?
  - 
- What is required for a product to be recognized as a QSCD?
  - 
- Why MIME type and certificate are included under the signature?
  - 
- How to prove that the certificate was valid at the time of signing?
  - 
- Will it be possible to verify ASICE signature after TSA/OCSP certificates expire?

## 11
## 12
## 13

## 14
- How is transaction integrity and authenticity provided in Bitcoin?
- When seeing Bitcoin blockchain how its authenticity can be established?
- Why Bitcoin miners solve blocks?
- Why can’t an attacker replace transaction in a solved Bitcoin block?
- How can an adversary which has majority of hashpower destroy Bitcoin system?
- How to open an account in Bitcoin system?
- Who has the control over Bitcoin system?