## Linux Fan Control
``` 
https://askubuntu.com/questions/22108/how-to-control-fan-speed


sudo pwmconfig

```

## Cyber Security Tech 1
### Vulnerable Configurations
A linux pc can be accessed through network like tv if xhost is open. 
Install the following program in the target machine: 
```
xhost +
xclock &
```
In the exploiter machine: 
``` 
tv -d alice:0.0
#alice is the pc, maybe replaced by ip address

xwatchwin alice root

xlsclients -l -display alice:0

xwatchwin alice -w 0x1e0000a
#last param is the window ID
```
### Administrator's point of view
``` 
sudo lsof -i
```
- system documentation: manual pages (man), Texinfo (info) and documenta-
   tion found in /usr/share/doc or /usr/doc
- linux commands
``` 
– find, locate
to find documentation, log files or configuration files
– lsof, netstat
display open files, ports and network information
– strings, ldd, nm
analyze executables
– strace, truss (Solaris), gdb
monitor the behavior of processes and trace system calls and signals
- The Linux command kill terminates a running process.
```

### Deactivating Services 

- scripts are located in the directory /etc/init.d, and most have options such as start
  and stop to respectively start or shutdown the corresponding service. 
- To speed up this process, there
  are new mechanisms that allow services to be started asynchronously. Such systme - Upstart jobs are defined in configuration files in /etc/init,
   which are read by the init daemon at system start
- Upstart is backward compatible in that it can handle traditional System V init scripts. 
- System V init system: 
``` 
BIOS - > Boot loader -> Kernel -> init

manual pages: init, inittab, insserv and cron.
``` 
### Restricting Service 
Sometimes it is impossible to shut down or remove a service. For example, a web
server should be accessible from the Internet, at least on port 80. In such cases there
are multiple options for restricting access to the service
  - Firewall
      - name o flinux firewall is iptable
      - `iptables.`
  - TCP Wrapper
     - All tcp request goes through this. Under Linux the most prominent TCP wrapper is tcpd,
     - In the files /etc/hosts.allow and /etc/hosts.deny, the administrator
       may then restrict access to the service on a per-host basis
     - `tcpd and hosts access`
  - Configuration: 
    - Some services have their own mechanism to restrict or control
    access. Consider, for example, user authentication on an Apache web server. Access control to directories can be defined in the corresponding configuration file of the Apache server.
``` 
sudo nmap -sV -sU -p 2049 alice
sudo nmap -sT -sU -p 21 alice

mkdir mountnfs
sudo mount.nfs alice:/home/alice/ mountnfs
``` 
- To protect the NFS service on alice, we modify iptables’ INPUT chain on alice to drop any packet addressed to port 2049 except those originating from bob:
```
    sudo iptables -A INPUT -p udp ! -s bob \
  > --dport 2049 -j DROP
  alice@alice:$ sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp ! -s bob \
  > --dport 2049 -j DROP
```       
Now test
``` 
mallet@mallet:$ sudo nmap -sV -sU -p 2049 alice
mallet@mallet:$ sudo nmap -sV -sT -p 2049 alice
```

By usingTCP Wrapper: 

```
alice@alice:$ sudo su
root@alice:# echo ’wu-ftpd: bob’ >> /etc/hosts.allow
root@alice:# echo ’wu-ftpd: ALL’ >> /etc/hosts.deny
```
```
mallet@mallet:$ sudo nmap -p 21 alice
PORT
STATE SERVICE
21/tcp open ftp
```
``` 
mallet@mallet:$ ftp alice
Connected to alice.
421 Service not available, remote server has closed connection
```


## Authentication and Access Control 
- Access Control: Restrict resource to authorized user
### Authentication 
- process by which a user is verified
- types of authentication 
  - password
  - otp
  - certificate
  - save in a file
    - local files
    - /etc/passwd
  - directory service
    - LDAP
    - RADIUS
    - Window Active Directory
#### Telnet and Remote Shell
- Telnet ( Remote Shell(rsh))
  - bidirectional communication
  - no encryption mechanism - so can be easily intercepted
  - provides an option to log in without a password. In a .rhosts file the IP addresses are given for which access is granted without the system asking for a password.


#### Secure Shell 
  - successor of rsh
  - encrypt all communication
  - can provide authentication by public key cryptography 
  
  
## Cryptography
The techniques need to protect data belong to the field of cryptography
- three names
  - cryptography(designing)
  - cryptanalysis(breaking)
  - cryptology(study of communication)
  
### Possible Attacks
  - Cipher Text
  - Known Plain Text
  - Chosen Plain Text
  - Chosen Cipher Text
 
 ### Symmetric and Public Key Algorithm
  - Symmetric
    - encryption and decryption keys both are known to Alice & Bob
      - decryption key can be calculated from encryption key
      - both can be same
      - ex: classical crypto system, DES, AES
  - Public Key
    - Suppose Alice and Bob are 100km apart so cannot share a secret key without getting together first. 
    - Alice cannot send a message over open channels to tell Bob
      the key, and then send the ciphertexh encrypted w ith this key.
    - This problem has a solution and it is public key cryptography. 
    - The encryption key is public but it is impossible(computationally infeasible) to find decryption key except Bob
    - ex: RSA
    - The amount of com putation needed in public key algorithms is typically several orders of magnitude more than the am ount of com putation needed in algorithms symmetric so used where small data must be processed