* I used https://plagiarismdetector.net/ to check the plagiarism. Just a few lines were showing matched with some sources but those sources were referenced. So, she might have done some paraphrasing but the line count is really low so it is alright I guess. 

* Word count was 1561

* Yes, contains 8 references

--- 


--- 

*  Yes formatted with a thesis template
*  Yes, the quality of English suitable for an academic paper
*   Yes the referencing are properly styled 

----
* 7 - From the paper, it's clear about the research question which is related to the incident about the cyberattack on the Ukrainian energy company. The topic is related to cybersecurity as the attackers exploit a corporate network and were able to shut it down for several hours.
*7 -  Based on the reference the author was able to express the necessary facts through different resources. 
*7 - The author explained the research questions with necessary references and based on the analysis was able to provide necessary steps that could be helpful to overcome such incidents. 
*7 - Based on the research topics, it's mostly a discussion about the incident so the question is mainly related to the attacks and recommendations for combating such attacks. From the paper, it's a well-organized question, and the outcome was well explained and also the recommendations were relevant. 


---- 
Some of the lines were taken from some resources. Though the references were given, you might write the similar word by paraphrasing. 


----

* Some of the lines shows plagiarism. Although they were referenced. Around 17% of the first 1000 word was referenced from https://www.iotforall.com/iot-attacks-hacker-motivation
* The main body is around 1136 word
* Seven references are given. 


---- 
* 1 - Somewhat follow some templating 
* 1 - It's more likely academic report instead of academic paper
* 1 - Follwed some referencing but not IEEE style

--- 


* Pass: By checking through https://plagiarismdetector.net/ it shows many lines as plagiarism but they are properly referenced 
* Fail: Word count shows 1310 without references, & with references and introductory pages it's 1773
* Pass: There are 15 references


-----

* yes, properly formatted with a thesis template
* yes, the writing is good as an academic paper
* yes, properly referenced

----


* Not a single line plagiarized :) 
* The word count is around 1900+
* In total 12 references found
--- 
